.TH g.extension 1 "" "GRASS 7.0.2" "Grass User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBg.extension\fR\fR  \- Maintains GRASS Addons extensions in local GRASS installation.
.br
Downloads, installs extensions from GRASS Addons SVN repository into local GRASS installation or removes installed extensions.
.SH KEYWORDS
general, installation, extensions
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBg.extension\fR
.br
\fBg.extension \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBg.extension\fR [\-\fBlcgasdift\fR] \fBextension\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoperation\fR=\fIstring\fR  [\fBsvnurl\fR=\fIurl\fR]   [\fBprefix\fR=\fIpath\fR]   [\fBproxy\fR=\fIproxy\fR[,\fIproxy\fR,...]]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-l\fR" 4m
.br
List available extensions in the GRASS Addons SVN repository
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 4m
.br
List available extensions in the GRASS Addons SVN repository including module description
.IP "\fB\-g\fR" 4m
.br
List available extensions in the GRASS Addons SVN repository (shell script style)
.IP "\fB\-a\fR" 4m
.br
List locally installed extensions
.IP "\fB\-s\fR" 4m
.br
Install system\-wide (may need system administrator rights)
.IP "\fB\-d\fR" 4m
.br
Download source code and exit
.IP "\fB\-i\fR" 4m
.br
Do not install new extension, just compile it
.IP "\fB\-f\fR" 4m
.br
Force removal when uninstalling extension (operation=remove)
.IP "\fB\-t\fR" 4m
.br
Operate on toolboxes instead of single modules (experimental)
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBextension\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of extension to install or remove
.br
Name of toolbox (set of extensions) when \-t flag is given
.IP "\fBoperation\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Operation to be performed
.br
Options: \fIadd, remove\fR
.br
Default: \fIadd\fR
.IP "\fBsvnurl\fR=\fIurl\fR" 4m
.br
SVN Addons repository URL
.br
Default: \fIhttp://svn.osgeo.org/grass/grass\-addons/grass7\fR
.IP "\fBprefix\fR=\fIpath\fR" 4m
.br
Prefix where to install extension (ignored when flag \-s is given)
.br
Default: \fI$GRASS_ADDON_BASE\fR
.IP "\fBproxy\fR=\fIproxy[,\fIproxy\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Set the proxy with: \(dqhttp=<value>,ftp=<value>\(dq
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIg.extension\fR downloads and installs, removes or updates
extensions (addons) from the official
GRASS GIS Addons repository
or user\-specified source into the local GRASS GIS installation.
.PP
Two types of extensions are supported:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
Python scripts: they are installed without the need of compilation or (usually)
the need of special dependencies.
.IP \(bu 4n
Source code (mostly written in C programming language; may also be written
in C++, Fortran or other languages): while on MS\-Windows systems the requested
GRASS GIS extension is downloaded pre\-compiled from the GRASS GIS site, on Unix
based systems the installation is preceeded by the automated download of the
extension\(cqs source code along with subsequent compilation and installation.
This requires a compiler environment to be present on the user\(cqs computer.
.RE
.SS Managing installed extensions
.PP
Re\-running \fIg.extension\fR on an installed GRASS GIS Addon
extension re\-installs the requested extension which may include
updates.
.PP
To bulk\-update all locally installed GRASS GIS extensions,
\fIg.extension.all\fR module
is available.
.SS Where the extensions are installed
GRASS GIS extensions are installed by \fIg.extension\fR into a dedicated
directory.
The default is a directory for application data and settings inside
the user\(cqs home directory.
On GNU/Linux it is $HOME/.grass7/addons,
on MS Windows it is $APPDATA\(rsGRASS7\(rsaddons.
The directory is stored in GRASS_ADDON_BASE environmental variable.
.PP
The flag \fB\-s\fR changes this install target directory to the GRASS GIS
installation directory
(determined by GISBASE environmental variable, e.g. /usr/)
rather than the
default GRASS_ADDON_BASE directory
(see also documentation for variables).
\fIg.extension\fR checks if the user has permission to write to
GISBASE or GRASS_ADDON_BASE.
.PP
The place where the extensions are installed can be customized by
the option \fBprefix\fR. Ensuring that these extensions will be accessible
in GRASS GIS is then responsibility of the user.
.SS Compilation and installation
On MS Windows systems, where compilation tools not readily available,
\fIg.extension\fR downloads a compiled executable
from the GRASS GIS project server. On all other operating systems
where it is not difficult to install compilation tools,
\fIg.extension\fR downloads the source code of the requested
extension (addon) and compiles it locally.
This applies for both C and Python modules
as well as any other extensions. The reason is that more things such
as manual page are compiled, not only the source code (which is really
necessary to compile just in case of C).
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Download and install of an extension
Download and install \fIr.stream.distance\fR into current GRASS installation
.br
.nf
\fC
g.extension extension=r.stream.distance
\fR
.fi
This installs the extension from the official repository.
For convenience, a shorter syntax can be used:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.extension r.stream.distance
\fR
.fi
.SS Download and install of an extension when behind a proxy
Example for an open http proxy:
.br
.nf
\fC
# syntax: http://proxyurl:proxyport
g.extension extension=r.stream.distance proxy=\(dqhttp://proxy.example.com:8080\(dq
\fR
.fi
.PP
Example for a proxy with proxy authentication:
.br
.nf
\fC
# syntax: http://username:password@proxyurl:proxyport
g.extension extension=r.stream.distance proxy=\(dqhttp://username:password@proxy.example.com:8080\(dq
\fR
.fi
.SS Managing the extensions
List all available extensions in the official GRASS GIS Addons repository:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.extension \-l
\fR
.fi
List all locally installed extensions:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.extension \-a
\fR
.fi
Removal of a locally installed extension:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.extension extension=r.stream.distance operation=remove
\fR
.fi
.SH TROUBLESHOOTING
Since extensions have to be compiled on Unix based systems (Linux, Mac OSX etc.)
unless a Python extension is installed, a full compiler environment must be
present on the user\(cqs computer.
.SS ERROR: Please install GRASS development package
While GRASS GIS is available on the user\(cqs computer, the respective development
package is lacking. If GRASS was installed from a (Linux) repository, also the
grass\-dev* package (commonly named \(dqgrass\-dev\(dq or \(dqgrass\-devel\(dq, sometimes along
with the version number) must be installed.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
g.extension.all
\fR
.PP
GRASS GIS 7 Addons Manual pages
.br
GRASS Addons wiki page.
.SH AUTHORS
Markus Neteler (original shell script)
.br
Martin Landa, Czech Technical University in Prague, Czech Republic (Python rewrite)
.PP
\fILast changed: $Date: 2015\-11\-07 13:04:10 +0100 (Sat, 07 Nov 2015) $\fR
.PP
Main index |
General index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2015
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.0.2 Reference Manual
