.TH g.gui.gmodeler 1 "" "GRASS 7.0.2" "Grass User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBg.gui.gmodeler\fR\fR  \- Graphical Modeler.
.br
Allows interactively creating, editing and managing models.
.SH KEYWORDS
general, GUI, graphical modeler, workflow
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBg.gui.gmodeler\fR
.br
\fBg.gui.gmodeler \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBg.gui.gmodeler\fR  [\fBfile\fR=\fIname.gxm\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBfile\fR=\fIname.gxm\fR" 4m
.br
Name of model file to be loaded
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fBGraphical Modeler\fR is
a \fIwxGUI\fR component which allows the user to
create, edit, and manage complex models using easy\-to\-use
interface. When performing analytical operations in GRASS, the
operations are not isolated, but part of a chain of operations. Using
Graphical Modeler, that chain of processes (ie. GRASS modules)
can be wrapped into one process (ie. model). So it\(cqs easier to execute
the model later with slightly different inputs or parameters.
.PP
The modeler can be launched from the Layer Manager menu File \->
Graphical modeler or from the main
toolbar . It\(cqs also
available as stand\-alone module \fIg.gui.gmodeler\fR.
.PP
The Graphical Modeler allows you to:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
define data items (raster, vector, 3D raster maps)
.IP \(bu 4n
define actions (GRASS commands)
.IP \(bu 4n
define relations between data and action items
.IP \(bu 4n
define loops (eg. map series) and conditions (if\-else statements)
.IP \(bu 4n
define model variables
.IP \(bu 4n
parameterize GRASS commands
.IP \(bu 4n
define intermediate data
.IP \(bu 4n
validate and run model
.IP \(bu 4n
store model properties to the file (GRASS Model File|*.gxm)
.IP \(bu 4n
export model to Python script
.IP \(bu 4n
export model to image file
.RE
.br
.br
\fIFigure: A model to perform unsupervised classification using MLC and SMAP\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
wxGUI
.br
wxGUI components
\fR
.PP
User\-defined models available
from SVN.
.PP
See also
the wiki page
(especially various video
tutorials).
.SH AUTHOR
Martin Landa, OSGeoREL, Czech Technical University in Prague, Czech Republic
.PP
\fI$Date: 2015\-02\-14 13:09:41 +0100 (Sat, 14 Feb 2015) $\fR
.PP
Main index |
GUI index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2015
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.0.2 Reference Manual
