.TH i.eb.evapfr 1 "" "GRASS 7.0.2" "Grass User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBi.eb.evapfr\fR\fR  \- Computes evaporative fraction (Bastiaanssen, 1995) and root zone soil moisture (Makin, Molden and Bastiaanssen, 2001).
.SH KEYWORDS
imagery, energy balance, soil moisture, evaporative fraction, SEBAL
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBi.eb.evapfr\fR
.br
\fBi.eb.evapfr \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBi.eb.evapfr\fR [\-\fBm\fR] \fBnetradiation\fR=\fIname\fR \fBsoilheatflux\fR=\fIname\fR \fBsensibleheatflux\fR=\fIname\fR \fBevaporativefraction\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBsoilmoisture\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-m\fR" 4m
.br
Root zone soil moisture output (Makin, Molden and Bastiaanssen, 2001)
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBnetradiation\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of Net Radiation raster map [W/m2]
.IP "\fBsoilheatflux\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of soil heat flux raster map [W/m2]
.IP "\fBsensibleheatflux\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of sensible heat flux raster map [W/m2]
.IP "\fBevaporativefraction\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output evaporative fraction raster map
.IP "\fBsoilmoisture\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output root zone soil moisture raster map
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIi.eb.evapfr\fR calculates the evaporative fraction after [1]. Main
implementation in [3].
It takes input of Net Radiation (see \fIr.sun\fR, \fIi.eb.netrad\fR), soil
heat flux (see i.eb.soilheatflux) and sensible heat flux (see i.eb.hsebal01).
A flag adds a root zone empirical soil moisture output from the article of
Makin, Molden and Bastiaanssen (2001).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.sun,
i.eb.soilheatflux,
i.eb.hsebal01
\fR
.SH REFERENCES
.PP
[1] Bastiaanssen, W.G.M., 1995.
Estimation of Land surface parameters by remote sensing under clear\-sky
conditions. PhD thesis, Wageningen University, Wageningen, The Netherlands.
(PDF)
.PP
[2] Chemin Y., Alexandridis T.A., 2001. Improving spatial resolution of ET
seasonal for irrigated rice in Zhanghe, China. Asian Journal of Geoinformatics.
5(1):3\-11,2004.
.PP
[3] Alexandridis T.K., Cherif I., Chemin Y., Silleos N.G., Stavrinos E.,
Zalidis G.C. Integrated methodology for estimating water use in Mediterranean
agricultural areas. Remote Sensing. 2009, 1, 445\-465.
(PDF)
.PP
[4] Chemin, Y., 2012.
A Distributed Benchmarking Framework for Actual ET Models,
in: Irmak, A. (Ed.), Evapotranspiration \- Remote Sensing and Modeling. InTech.
(PDF)
.SH AUTHOR
Yann Chemin, Asian Institute of Technology, Thailand
.PP
\fILast changed: $Date: 2015\-01\-25 18:56:33 +0100 (Sun, 25 Jan 2015) $\fR
.PP
Main index |
Imagery index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2015
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.0.2 Reference Manual
