.TH i.vi 1 "" "GRASS 7.0.2" "Grass User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBi.vi\fR\fR  \- Calculates different types of vegetation indices.
.br
Uses red and nir bands mostly, and some indices require additional bands.
.SH KEYWORDS
imagery, vegetation index, biophysical parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBi.vi\fR
.br
\fBi.vi \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBi.vi\fR \fBred\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBviname\fR=\fItype\fR  [\fBnir\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBgreen\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBblue\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBband5\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBband7\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBsoil_line_slope\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBsoil_line_intercept\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBsoil_noise_reduction\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBstorage_bit\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBred\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input red channel surface reflectance map
.br
Range: [0.0;1.0]
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map
.IP "\fBviname\fR=\fItype\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Type of vegetation index
.br
Options: \fIarvi, dvi, evi, evi2, gvi, gari, gemi, ipvi, msavi, msavi2, ndvi, pvi, savi, sr, vari, wdvi\fR
.br
Default: \fIndvi\fR
.br
\fBarvi\fR: Atmospherically Resistant Vegetation Indices
.br
\fBdvi\fR: Difference Vegetation Index
.br
\fBevi\fR: Enhanced Vegetation Index
.br
\fBevi2\fR: Enhanced Vegetation Index 2
.br
\fBgvi\fR: Green Vegetation Index
.br
\fBgari\fR: Green Atmospherically Resistant Vegetation Index
.br
\fBgemi\fR: Global Environmental Monitoring Index
.br
\fBipvi\fR: Infrared Percentage Vegetation Index
.br
\fBmsavi\fR: Modified Soil Adjusted Vegetation Index
.br
\fBmsavi2\fR: second Modified Soil Adjusted Vegetation Index
.br
\fBndvi\fR: Normalized Difference Vegetation Index
.br
\fBpvi\fR: Perpendicular Vegetation Index
.br
\fBsavi\fR: Soil Adjusted Vegetation Index
.br
\fBsr\fR: Simple Ratio
.br
\fBvari\fR: Visible Atmospherically Resistant Index
.br
\fBwdvi\fR: Weighted Difference Vegetation Index
.IP "\fBnir\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input nir channel surface reflectance map
.br
Range: [0.0;1.0]
.IP "\fBgreen\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input green channel surface reflectance map
.br
Range: [0.0;1.0]
.IP "\fBblue\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input blue channel surface reflectance map
.br
Range: [0.0;1.0]
.IP "\fBband5\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input 5th channel surface reflectance map
.br
Range: [0.0;1.0]
.IP "\fBband7\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input 7th channel surface reflectance map
.br
Range: [0.0;1.0]
.IP "\fBsoil_line_slope\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Value of the slope of the soil line (MSAVI2 only)
.IP "\fBsoil_line_intercept\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Value of the intercept of the soil line (MSAVI2 only)
.IP "\fBsoil_noise_reduction\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Value of the factor of reduction of soil noise (MSAVI2 only)
.IP "\fBstorage_bit\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Maximum bits for digital numbers
.br
If data is in Digital Numbers (i.e. integer type), give the max bits (i.e. 8 for Landsat \-> [0\-255])
.br
Options: \fI7, 8, 10, 16\fR
.br
Default: \fI8\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIi.vi\fR calculates vegetation indices based on biophysical
parameters.
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
ARVI: atmospherically resistant vegetation indices
.IP \(bu 4n
DVI: Difference Vegetation Index
.IP \(bu 4n
EVI: Enhanced Vegetation Index
.IP \(bu 4n
EVI2: Enhanced Vegetation Index 2
.IP \(bu 4n
GARI: Green atmospherically resistant vegetation index
.IP \(bu 4n
GEMI: Global Environmental Monitoring Index
.IP \(bu 4n
GVI: Green Vegetation Index
.IP \(bu 4n
IPVI: Infrared Percentage Vegetation Index
.IP \(bu 4n
MSAVI2: second Modified Soil Adjusted Vegetation Index
.IP \(bu 4n
MSAVI: Modified Soil Adjusted Vegetation Index
.IP \(bu 4n
NDVI: Normalized Difference Vegetation Index
.IP \(bu 4n
PVI: Perpendicular Vegetation Index
.IP \(bu 4n
RVI: ratio vegetation index
.IP \(bu 4n
SAVI: Soil Adjusted Vegetation Index
.IP \(bu 4n
SR: Simple Vegetation ratio
.IP \(bu 4n
WDVI: Weighted Difference Vegetation Index
.RE
.SS Background for users new to remote sensing
Vegetation Indices are often considered the entry point of remote
sensing for Earth land monitoring. They are suffering from their
success, in terms that often people tend to harvest satellite images
from online sources and use them directly in this module.
.PP
From Digital number to Radiance:
.br
Satellite imagery is commonly stored in Digital Number (DN) for
storage purposes; e.g., Landsat5 data is stored in 8bit values
(ranging from 0 to 255), other satellites maybe stored in 10 or 16
bits. If the data is provided in DN, this implies that this imagery
is \(dquncorrected\(dq. What this means is that the image is what the
satellite sees at its position and altitude in space (stored in DN).
This is not the signal at ground yet. We call this data at\-satellite
or at\-sensor. Encoded in the 8bits (or more) is the amount of energy
sensed by the sensor inside the satellite platform. This energy is
called radiance\-at\-sensor. Generally, satellites image providers
encode the radiance\-at\-sensor into 8bit (or more) through an affine
transform equation (y=ax+b). In case of using Landsat imagery, look
at the \fIi.landsat.toar\fR for an easy way to transform DN to
radiance\-at\-sensor. If using Aster data, try the \fIi.aster.toar\fR
module.
.PP
From Radiance to Reflectance:
.br
Finally, once having obtained the radiance at sensor values, still
the atmosphere is between sensor and Earth\(cqs surface. This fact
needs to be corrected to account for the atmospheric interaction
with the sun energy that the vegetation reflects back into space.
This can be done in two ways for Landsat. The simple way is through
\fIi.landsat.toar\fR, use e.g. the DOS correction. The more
accurate way is by using \fIi.atcorr\fR (which works for many
satellite sensors). Once the atmospheric correction has been applied
to the satellite data, data vales are called surface reflectance.
Surface reflectance is ranging from 0.0 to 1.0 theoretically (and
absolutely). This level of data correction is the proper level of
correction to use with \fIi.vi\fR.
.SS Vegetation Indices
ARVI: Atmospheric Resistant Vegetation Index
.PP
ARVI is resistant to atmospheric effects (in comparison to
the NDVI) and is accomplished by a self correcting process
for the atmospheric effect in the red channel, using the
difference in the radiance between the blue and the red
channels (Kaufman and Tanre 1996).
.br
.nf
\fC
ARVI = (nirchan \- (2.0*redchan \- bluechan)) /
    ( nirchan + (2.0*redchan \- bluechan))
arvi( redchan, nirchan, bluechan )
\fR
.fi
.PP
DVI: Difference Vegetation Index
.br
.nf
\fC
DVI = ( nirchan \- redchan )
dvi( redchan, nirchan )
\fR
.fi
.PP
EVI: Enhanced Vegetation Index
.PP
The enhanced vegetation index (EVI) is an optimized index designed
to enhance the vegetation signal with improved sensitivity in high
biomass regions and improved vegetation monitoring through a
de\-coupling of the canopy background signal and a reduction in
atmosphere influences (Huete A.R., Liu H.Q., Batchily K., van Leeuwen
W. (1997). A comparison of vegetation indices global set of TM
images for EOS\-MODIS. Remote Sensing of Environment, 59:440\-451).
.br
.nf
\fC
EVI = 2.5 * ( nirchan \- redchan ) /
    ( nirchan + 6.0 * redchan \- 7.5 * bluechan + 1.0 )
evi( bluechan, redchan, nirchan )
\fR
.fi
.PP
EVI2: Enhanced Vegetation Index 2
.PP
A 2\-band EVI (EVI2), without a blue band, which has the best
similarity with the 3\-band EVI, particularly when atmospheric
effects are insignificant and data quality is good (Zhangyan Jiang ;
Alfredo R. Huete ; Youngwook Kim and Kamel Didan 2\-band enhanced
vegetation index without a blue band and its application to AVHRR
data. Proc. SPIE 6679, Remote Sensing and Modeling of Ecosystems for
Sustainability IV, 667905 (october 09, 2007)
doi:10.1117/12.734933).
.br
.nf
\fC
EVI2 = 2.5 * ( nirchan \- redchan ) /
    ( nirchan + 2.4 * redchan + 1.0 )
evi2( redchan, nirchan )
\fR
.fi
.PP
GARI: green atmospherically resistant vegetation index
.PP
The formula was actually defined:
Gitelson, Anatoly A.; Kaufman, Yoram J.; Merzlyak, Mark N. (1996)
Use of a green channel in remote sensing of global vegetation from EOS\-
MODIS, Remote Sensing of Environment 58 (3), 289\-298.
doi:10.1016/s0034\-4257(96)00072\-7
.br
.nf
\fC
GARI = ( nirchan \- (greenchan \- (bluechan \- redchan))) /
( nirchan + (greenchan \- (bluechan \- redchan)))
gari( redchan, nirchan, bluechan, greenchan )
\fR
.fi
.PP
GEMI: Global Environmental Monitoring Index
.br
.nf
\fC
GEMI = (( (2*((nirchan * nirchan)\-(redchan * redchan))+
1.5*nirchan+0.5*redchan) / (nirchan + redchan + 0.5)) *
(1 \- 0.25 * (2*((nirchan * nirchan)\-(redchan * redchan))
+1.5*nirchan+0.5*redchan) /(nirchan + redchan + 0.5)))\-
( (redchan \- 0.125) / (1 \- redchan))
gemi( redchan, nirchan )
\fR
.fi
.PP
GVI: Green Vegetation Index
.br
.nf
\fC
GVI = ( \-0.2848 * bluechan \- 0.2435 * greenchan \-
0.5436 * redchan + 0.7243 * nirchan + 0.0840 * chan5chan\-
0.1800 * chan7chan)
gvi( bluechan, greenchan, redchan, nirchan, chan5chan, chan7chan)
\fR
.fi
.PP
IPVI: Infrared Percentage Vegetation Index
.br
.nf
\fC
IPVI = nirchan/(nirchan+redchan)
ipvi( redchan, nirchan )
\fR
.fi
MSAVI2: second Modified Soil Adjusted Vegetation Index
.br
.nf
\fC
MSAVI2 = (1/2)*(2(NIR+1)\-sqrt((2*NIR+1)^2\-8(NIR\-red)))
msavi2( redchan, nirchan )
\fR
.fi
.PP
MSAVI: Modified Soil Adjusted Vegetation Index
.br
.nf
\fC
MSAVI = s(NIR\-s*red\-a) / (a*NIR+red\-a*s+X*(1+s*s))
msavi( redchan, nirchan )
\fR
.fi
where a is the soil line intercept, s is the
soil line slope, and X 	is an adjustment factor
which is set to minimize soil noise (0.08 in
original papers).
.PP
NDVI: Normalized Difference Vegetation Index
.br
.nf
\fC
Data Type Band Numbers ([NIR, Red])
MSS Bands = [7, 5]
TM1\-5,7 Bands= [4,3]
TM8 Bands= [5,4]
AVHRR Bands = [2, 1]
SPOT XS Bands = [3, 2]
AVIRIS Bands = [51, 29]
NDVI = (NIR \- Red) / (NIR + Red)
\fR
.fi
.PP
PVI: Perpendicular Vegetation Index
.br
.nf
\fC
PVI = sin(a)NIR\-cos(a)red
pvi( redchan, nirchan )
\fR
.fi
for a isovegetation lines (lines of equal vegetation)
would all be parallel to the soil line therefore a=1.
.PP
SAVI: Soil Adjusted Vegetation Index
.br
.nf
\fC
SAVI = ((1.0+0.5)*(nirchan \- redchan)) / (nirchan + redchan +0.5)
savi( redchan, nirchan )
\fR
.fi
.PP
SR: Simple Vegetation ratio
.br
.nf
\fC
SR = (nirchan/redchan)
sr( redchan, nirchan )
\fR
.fi
.PP
VARI: Visible Atmospherically Resistant Index
VARI was designed to introduce an atmospheric self\-correction
(Gitelson A.A., Kaufman Y.J., Stark R., Rundquist D., 2002. Novel
algorithms for estimation of vegetation fraction Remote Sensing of
Environment (80), pp76\-87.)
.br
.nf
\fC
VARI = (green \- red ) / (green + red \- blue)
\fR
.fi
.PP
WDVI: Weighted Difference Vegetation Index
.br
.nf
\fC
WDVI = nirchan \- a * redchan
if(soil_weight_line == None):
   a = 1.0 #slope of soil line
wdvi( redchan, nirchan, soil_line_weight )
\fR
.fi
.SH EXAMPLE
This example uses a LANDSAT TM5 scene included in the North Carolina sample
dataset.
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=lsat5_1987_30 \-p
i.vi red=lsat5_1987_30 viname=ndvi output=lsat5_1987.ndvi nir=lsat5_1987_40
r.colors lsat5_1987.ndvi color=ndvi
\fR
.fi
.SH NOTES
Originally from kepler.gps.caltech.edu (FAQ):
.PP
A FAQ on Vegetation in Remote Sensing
.br
Written by Terrill W. Ray, Div. of Geological and Planetary Sciences,
California Institute of Technology, email: terrill@mars1.gps.caltech.edu
.PP
Snail Mail:  Terrill Ray
.br
Division of Geological and Planetary Sciences
.br
Caltech, Mail Code 170\-25
.br
Pasadena, CA  91125
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
i.albedo,
i.aster.toar,
i.landsat.toar,
i.atcorr,
i.tasscap
\fR
.SH REFERENCES
AVHRR, Landsat TM5:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
Bastiaanssen, W.G.M., 1995. Regionalization of surface flux
densities and moisture indicators in composite terrain; a remote
sensing approach under clear skies in mediterranean climates. PhD
thesis, Wageningen Agricultural Univ., The Netherland, 271 pp.
(PDF)
.IP \(bu 4n
Index DataBase: List of available Indices
.RE
.SH AUTHORS
Baburao Kamble, Asian Institute of Technology, Thailand
.br
Yann Chemin, Asian Institute of Technology, Thailand
.PP
\fILast changed: $Date: 2014\-12\-19 22:55:37 +0100 (Fri, 19 Dec 2014) $\fR
.PP
Main index |
Imagery index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2015
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.0.2 Reference Manual
