.TH r.carve 1 "" "GRASS 7.0.2" "Grass User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.carve\fR\fR  \- Generates stream channels.
.br
Takes vector stream data, transforms it to raster and subtracts depth from the output DEM.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, hydrology
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.carve\fR
.br
\fBr.carve \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.carve\fR [\-\fBn\fR] \fBraster\fR=\fIname\fR \fBvector\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBpoints\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBwidth\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBdepth\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-n\fR" 4m
.br
No flat areas allowed in flow direction
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBraster\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster elevation map
.IP "\fBvector\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input vector map containing stream(s)
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map
.IP "\fBpoints\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output vector map for adjusted stream points
.IP "\fBwidth\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Stream width (in meters)
.br
Default is raster cell width
.IP "\fBdepth\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Additional stream depth (in meters)
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.carve\fR accepts vector stream data as input, transforms them to
raster, and subtracts a default\-depth + additional\-depth from a DEM. If
the given width is more than 1 cell, it will carve the stream with the
given width. With the \fB\-n\fR flag it should eliminate all flat cells within
the stream, so when and if the water gets into the stream it will
flow. The \fIpoints\fR option generates x,y,z for points which define the stream
with the z\-value of the bottom of the carved\-in stream. These points
can then be combined with contours to interpolate a new DEM with
better representation of valleys.
.SH NOTES
\fIr.carve\fR does not create a depressionless DEM because many
depressions are in flat areas and not in the streams.
.SH EXAMPLE
North Carolina sample dataset:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=elevation \-p
r.carve rast=elevation vect=streams out=carve_dem width=20 depth=5
\fR
.fi
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
The module does not operate yet in latitude\-longitude locations.  It
has not been thoroughly tested, so not all options may work properly \-
but this was the intention.
.SH REFERENCES
Terrain
modeling and Soil Erosion Simulations for Fort Hood and Fort Polk test
areas, by Helena Mitasova, Lubos Mitas, William M. Brown, Douglas
M.  Johnston, GMSL (Report for CERL 1999)
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.flow,
r.fill.dir,
r.watershed
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Bill Brown (GMSL)
.br
GRASS 6 update: Brad Douglas
.PP
\fILast changed: $Date: 2015\-05\-11 02:16:13 +0200 (Mon, 11 May 2015) $\fR
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2015
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.0.2 Reference Manual
