.TH r.import 1 "" "GRASS 7.0.2" "Grass User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.import\fR\fR  \- Imports raster data into a GRASS raster map using GDAL library and reprojects on the fly.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, import, projection
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.import\fR
.br
\fBr.import \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.import\fR [\-\fBenl\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBband\fR=\fIinteger\fR[,\fIinteger\fR,...]]   [\fBmemory\fR=\fIinteger\fR]  \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBresample\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBextent\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBresolution\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBresolution_value\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-e\fR" 4m
.br
Estimate resolution only
.IP "\fB\-n\fR" 4m
.br
Do not perform region cropping optimization
.IP "\fB\-l\fR" 4m
.br
Force Lat/Lon maps to fit into geographic coordinates (90N,S; 180E,W)
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of GDAL dataset to be imported
.IP "\fBband\fR=\fIinteger[,\fIinteger\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Input band(s) to select (default is all bands)
.IP "\fBmemory\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Maximum memory to be used (in MB)
.br
Cache size for raster rows
.br
Options: \fI0\-2047\fR
.br
Default: \fI300\fR
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map
.IP "\fBresample\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Resampling method to use for reprojection
.br
Options: \fInearest, bilinear, bicubic, lanczos, bilinear_f, bicubic_f, lanczos_f\fR
.br
Default: \fInearest\fR
.br
\fBnearest\fR: nearest neighbor
.br
\fBbilinear\fR: bilinear interpolation
.br
\fBbicubic\fR: bicubic interpolation
.br
\fBlanczos\fR: lanczos filter
.br
\fBbilinear_f\fR: bilinear interpolation with fallback
.br
\fBbicubic_f\fR: bicubic interpolation with fallback
.br
\fBlanczos_f\fR: lanczos filter with fallback
.IP "\fBextent\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Output raster map extent
.br
Options: \fIinput, region\fR
.br
Default: \fIinput\fR
.br
\fBinput\fR: extent of input map
.br
\fBregion\fR: extent of current region
.IP "\fBresolution\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Resolution of output raster map (default: estimated)
.br
Options: \fIestimated, value, region\fR
.br
Default: \fIestimated\fR
.br
\fBestimated\fR: estimated resolution
.br
\fBvalue\fR: user\-specified resolution
.br
\fBregion\fR: current region resolution
.IP "\fBresolution_value\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Resolution of output raster map (use with option resolution=value)
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.import\fR imports a map or selected bands from a GDAL raster datasource
into the current location and mapset. If the projection of the input
does not match the projection of the location, the input is reprojected
into the current location. If the projection of the input does match
the projection of the location, the input is imported directly with
r.in.gdal.
.SH NOTES
.SS Resolution
\fIr.import\fR reports the estimated target resolution for each
input band. The estimated resolution will usually be some floating
point number, e.g. 271.301. In case option \fBresolution\fR is set to
\fIestimated\fR (default), this floating point number will be used
as target resolution. Since the target resolution should be typically the rounded
estimated resolution, e.g. 250 or 300 instead of 271.301, flag \fB\-e\fR
can be used first to obtain the estimate without importing the raster bands.
Then the desired resolution is set with option \fBresolution_value\fR
and option \fBresolution\fR=\fIvalue\fR.
For latlong locations, the resolution might be set to arc seconds, e.g. 1, 3, 7.5,
15, and 30 arc seconds are commonly used resolutions.
.SS Resampling methods
When reprojecting a map to a new spatial reference system, the projected
data is resampled with one of four different methods: nearest neighbor,
bilinear, bicubic iterpolation or lanczos.
.PP
In the following common use cases:
.PP
\fBnearest\fR is the simplest method and the only possible method for
categorical data.
.PP
\fBbilinear\fR does linear interpolation and provides smoother output
than \fBnearest\fR. \fBbilinear\fR is recommended when reprojecting a
DEM for hydrological analysis or for surfaces where overshoots must be
avoided, e.g. precipitation should not become negative.
.PP
\fBbicubic\fR produces smoother output than \fBbilinear\fR, at
the cost of overshoots.
.PP
\fBlanczos\fR produces the smoothest output of all methods and
preserves contrast best. \fBlanczos\fR is recommended for imagery.
Both \fBbicubic\fR and \fBlanczos\fR preserve linear features. With
\fBnearest\fR or \fBbilinear\fR, linear features can become zigzag
features after reprojection.
.PP
For explanation of the \fB\-l\fR flag, please refer to the
r.in.gdal manual.
.PP
When importing whole\-world maps the user should disable map\-trimming with
the \fB\-n\fR flag. For further explanations of \fB\-n\fR flag, please refer
the to r.proj manual.
.SH EXAMPLE
Import of a subset from Bioclim data set, to be reprojected
to current location projection (North Carolina sample dataset). While normally
the full raster map is imported, we spatially subset using the \fIextent\fR
parameter:
.br
.nf
\fC
# download selected Bioclim data
wget http://biogeo.ucdavis.edu/data/climate/worldclim/1_4/grid/cur/bio_2\-5m_bil.zip
# extract BIO1 from package:
unzip bio_2\-5m_bil.zip bio1.bil bio1.hdr
# set computational region to North Carolina, 4000 m target pixel resolution
g.region \-d res=4000 \-ap
# subset to current region and reproject on the fly to current location projection,
# using \-n since whole\-world map is imported:
r.import input=bio1.bil output=bioclim01 resample=bilinear \(rs
         extent=region resolution=region \-n
r.info bioclim01
r.univar \-e bioclim01
\fR
.fi
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
The option \fBextent\fR=\fIregion\fR only works when the dataset has a
different projection than the current location (i.e., internally
r.proj is invoked).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.in.gdal,
r.proj
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Markus Metz
.br
Improvements: Martin Landa, Anna Petrasova
.PP
\fILast changed: $Date: 2015\-01\-20 20:52:27 +0100 (Tue, 20 Jan 2015) $\fR
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2015
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.0.2 Reference Manual
