.TH v.db.univar 1 "" "GRASS 7.0.2" "Grass User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.db.univar\fR\fR  \- Calculates univariate statistics on selected table column for a GRASS vector map.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, statistics, attribute table
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.db.univar\fR
.br
\fBv.db.univar \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.db.univar\fR [\-\fBeg\fR] \fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR]  \fBcolumn\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBwhere\fR=\fIsql_query\fR]   [\fBpercentile\fR=\fIfloat\fR[,\fIfloat\fR,...]]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-e\fR" 4m
.br
Extended statistics (quartiles and 90th percentile)
.IP "\fB\-g\fR" 4m
.br
Print stats in shell script style
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of vector map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number or name
.br
Vector features can have category values in different layers. This number determines which layer to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBcolumn\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of attribute column on which to calculate statistics (must be numeric)
.IP "\fBwhere\fR=\fIsql_query\fR" 4m
.br
WHERE conditions of SQL statement without \(cqwhere\(cq keyword
.br
Example: income < 1000 and inhab >= 10000
.IP "\fBpercentile\fR=\fIfloat[,\fIfloat\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Percentile to calculate (requires extended statistics flag)
.br
Options: \fI0\-100\fR
.br
Default: \fI90\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.db.univar\fR calculates basic univariate statistics for numeric
attributes in a vector attribute table. It will calculate minimum,
maximum, range, mean, standard deviation, variance, coefficient of
variation, quartiles, median, and 90th percentile.
It uses \fIdb.select\fR to create list values for statistical calculations.
\fINOTES\fR
A database connection must be defined for the selected vector layer.
.SH EXAMPLE
In this example, random points are sampled from the elevation map
(North Carolina sample dataset) and univariate statistics performed:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=elevation \-p
v.random output=samples n=100
v.db.addtable samples column=\(dqheights double precision\(dq
v.what.rast samples raster=elevation colum=heights
v.db.select samples
v.db.univar samples colum=heights
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
db.univar,
r.univar,
v.univar,
db.select,
d.vect.thematic
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Barton, Arizona State University
.PP
and authors of \fIr.univar.sh\fR
.PP
\fILast changed: $Date: 2014\-12\-19 22:55:37 +0100 (Fri, 19 Dec 2014) $\fR
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2015
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.0.2 Reference Manual
