.TH v.qcount 1 "" "GRASS 7.0.2" "Grass User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.qcount\fR\fR  \- Indices for quadrat counts of vector point lists.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, statistics, point pattern
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.qcount\fR
.br
\fBv.qcount \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.qcount\fR [\-\fBg\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR]  \fBnquadrats\fR=\fIinteger\fR \fBradius\fR=\fIfloat\fR  [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-g\fR" 4m
.br
Print results in shell script style
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input vector map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number or name (\(cq\-1\(cq for all layers)
.br
A single vector map can be connected to multiple database tables. This number determines which table to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI\-1\fR
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output quadrat centers map (number of points is written as category)
.IP "\fBnquadrats\fR=\fIinteger\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Number of quadrats
.IP "\fBradius\fR=\fIfloat\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Quadrat radius
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.qcount\fR chooses \fBnquadradius ants\fR circular quadrats of
radius \fBradius\fR such that they are completely within the
bounds of the current region and no two quadrats overlap.
The number of points falling within each quadrat are counted
and indices are calculated to estimate the departure of
point locations from complete spatial randomness.
.SH NOTES
This program may not work properly with lat\-long data. It uses
\fIhypot()\fR in two files: \fIcount.c\fR and
\fIfindquads.c\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIv.random\fR
.SH REFERENCES
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fIComplete Spatial Randomness and Quadrat Methods\fR  \- GRASS
Tutorial on \fIv.qcount\fR (only available as older file
s.qcount\-tutorial.ps)
.RE
.PP
General references include:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
Noel A. C. Cressie. \fIStatistics for Spatial Data\fR.
Wiley Series in Probability and Mathematical Statistics. John Wiley
& Sons, New York, NY, 1st edition, 1991.
.IP \(bu 4n
Brian D. Ripley. \fISpatial Statistics\fR.
John Wiley \(rs& Sons, New York, NY, 1981.
.RE
.PP
References to the indices include:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
F. N. David and P. G. Moore. Notes on contagious distributions in
plant populations. \fIAnnals of Botany\fR, 18:47\-53, 1954.
.IP \(bu 4n
J. B. Douglas.  Clustering and aggregation.
\fISankhya B\fR, 37:398\-417, 1975.
.IP \(bu 4n
R. A. Fisher, H. G. Thornton, and W. A. Mackenzie.
The accuracy of the plating method of estimating the density of
bacterial populations.
\fIAnnals of Applied Biology\fR, 9:325\-359, 1922.
.IP \(bu 4n
M. Lloyd. Mean crowding.
\fIJournal of Animal Ecology\fR, 36:1\-30, 1967.
.IP \(bu 4n
M. Morista. Measuring the dispersion and analysis of distribution patterns.
\fIMemoires of the Faculty of Science, Kyushu University, Series E.
Biology\fR, 2:215\-235, 1959.
.RE
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
Timestamp not working for header part of counts output. (2000\-10\-28)
.SH AUTHORS
James Darrell McCauley
<darrell@mccauley\-usa.com>,
.br
when he was at:
Agricultural Engineering
Purdue University
.PP
Modified for GRASS 5.0 by Eric G. Miller (2000\-10\-28)
.br
Modified for GRASS 5.7 by R. Blazek (2004\-10\-14)
.PP
\fILast changed: $Date: 2015\-05\-11 02:16:13 +0200 (Mon, 11 May 2015) $\fR
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2015
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.0.2 Reference Manual
