.TH v.surf.idw 1 "" "GRASS 7.0.2" "Grass User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.surf.idw\fR\fR  \- Provides surface interpolation from vector point data by Inverse Distance Squared Weighting.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, surface, interpolation, IDW
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.surf.idw\fR
.br
\fBv.surf.idw \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.surf.idw\fR [\-\fBn\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBcolumn\fR=\fIname\fR]  \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBnpoints\fR=\fIcount\fR]   [\fBpower\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-n\fR" 4m
.br
Don\(cqt index points by raster cell
.br
Slower but uses less memory and includes points from outside region in the interpolation
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input vector map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number or name
.br
Vector features can have category values in different layers. This number determines which layer to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBcolumn\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of attribute column with values to interpolate
.br
If not given and input is 2D vector map then category values are used. If input is 3D vector map then z\-coordinates are used.
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map
.IP "\fBnpoints\fR=\fIcount\fR" 4m
.br
Number of interpolation points
.br
Default: \fI12\fR
.IP "\fBpower\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Power parameter
.br
Greater values assign greater influence to closer points
.br
Default: \fI2.0\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIv.surf.idw\fR fills a raster matrix with interpolated values
generated from a set of irregularly spaced vector data points using
numerical approximation (weighted averaging) techniques. The
interpolated value of a cell is determined by values of nearby data
points and the distance of the cell from those input points.  In
comparison with other methods, numerical approximation allows
representation of more complex surfaces (particularly those with
anomalous features), restricts the spatial influence of any errors,
and generates the interpolated surface from the data points.
.PP
Values to interpolate are read from \fBcolumn\fR option. If this
option is not given than the program uses \fIcategories\fR as values
to interpolate or \fIz\-coordinates\fR if the input vector map is 3D.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The amount of memory used by this program is related to the number
of vector points in the current region.  If the vector point map is
very dense (i.e., contains many data points), the program may
not be able to get all the memory it needs from the
system.  The time required to execute is related to the
resolution of the current region, after an initial delay
determined by the time taken to read the input vector points map.
.PP
Note that vector features without category in given \fBlayer\fR are
\fIskipped\fR.
.PP
If the user has a mask set, then interpolation is only done
for those cells that fall within the mask. However, all
vector points in the current region are used even
if they fall outside the mask. Vector points outside the current
region are not used in the interpolation. A larger region may
be set and a mask used to limit interpolation to a smaller area
if it is desired to use vector points from outside the region in the
interpolation. The \fB\-n\fR flag may also be used to
achieve a similar result.
.PP
If more than \fBnpoints\fR fall into one target raster cell,
the mean of all the site values will determine the cell value (unless
the \fB\-n\fR flag is specified, in which case only the \fBnpoints\fR
closest to the centre of the cell will be interpolated).
.PP
The \fBpower\fR parameter defines an exponential distance weight.
Greater values assign greater influence to values closer to the
point to be interpolated. The interpolation function peaks sharply over
the given data points for 0 < \fIp\fR < 1 and more smoothly for
larger values. The default value for the power parameter is 2.
.PP
By setting \fBnpoints\fR=1, the module can be used to calculate
raster Voronoi diagrams (Thiessen polygons).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
g.region,
r.surf.contour,
r.surf.idw,
r.surf.gauss,
r.surf.fractal,
r.surf.random,
v.surf.rst
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Michael Shapiro,
U.S. Army Construction Engineering
Research Laboratory
.br
Improved algorithm (indexes points according to cell and ignores
points outside current region) by Paul Kelly
.PP
\fILast changed: $Date: 2014\-12\-27 23:51:00 +0100 (Sat, 27 Dec 2014) $\fR
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2015
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.0.2 Reference Manual
