.TH d.grid 1 "" "GRASS 7.0.4" "Grass User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBd.grid\fR\fR  \- Overlays a user\-specified grid in the active display frame on the graphics monitor.
.SH KEYWORDS
display, cartography, graticule
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBd.grid\fR
.br
\fBd.grid \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBd.grid\fR [\-\fBagwcdfnbt\fR] \fBsize\fR=\fIvalue\fR  [\fBorigin\fR=\fIeast,north\fR]   [\fBdirection\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBwidth\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBcolor\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBborder_color\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBtext_color\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBfontsize\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-a\fR" 4m
.br
Align the origin to the east\-north corner of the current region
.IP "\fB\-g\fR" 4m
.br
Draw geographic grid (referenced to current ellipsoid)
.IP "\fB\-w\fR" 4m
.br
Draw geographic grid (referenced to WGS84 ellipsoid)
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 4m
.br
Draw \(cq+\(cq marks instead of grid lines
.IP "\fB\-d\fR" 4m
.br
Draw \(cq.\(cq marks instead of grid lines
.IP "\fB\-f\fR" 4m
.br
Draw fiducial marks instead of grid lines
.IP "\fB\-n\fR" 4m
.br
Disable grid drawing
.IP "\fB\-b\fR" 4m
.br
Disable border drawing
.IP "\fB\-t\fR" 4m
.br
Disable text drawing
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBsize\fR=\fIvalue\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Size of grid to be drawn (in map units)
.br
0 for north\-south resolution of the current region. In map units or DDD:MM:SS format. Example: \(dq1000\(dq or \(dq0:10\(dq
.IP "\fBorigin\fR=\fIeast,north\fR" 4m
.br
Lines of the grid pass through this coordinate
.br
Default: \fI0,0\fR
.IP "\fBdirection\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Draw only east\-west lines, north\-south lines, or both
.br
Options: \fIboth, east\-west, north\-south\fR
.br
Default: \fIboth\fR
.IP "\fBwidth\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Grid line width
.IP "\fBcolor\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Grid color
.br
Either a standard color name or R:G:B triplet
.br
Default: \fIgray\fR
.IP "\fBborder_color\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Border color
.br
Either a standard color name or R:G:B triplet
.br
Default: \fIblack\fR
.IP "\fBtext_color\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Text color
.br
Either a standard color name or R:G:B triplet
.br
Default: \fIgray\fR
.IP "\fBfontsize\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Font size for gridline coordinate labels
.br
Options: \fI1\-72\fR
.br
Default: \fI9\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fId.grid\fR overlays a grid of user\-defined size and
color in the active display frame on the graphics monitor.
The grid can be created as a standard rectangular grid or
a geographic grid. The grid will overlay, not overwrite,
the contents of the active display frame.
.PP
\fId.grid\fR can be run non\-interactively or
interactively.  If the user specifies the grid
\fIsize\fR and (optionally) the grid \fIcolor\fR on
the command line the program will run non\-interactively; if
no grid \fIcolor\fR is given the default will be used.
Alternately, the user may simply type \fBd.grid\fR on the
command line; in this case, the program will prompt the
user for parameter values using the standard GRASS graphical
user interface.
.SH NOTES
\fId.grid\fR will not erase grids already displayed in
the active graphics display frame by previous invocations
of \fId.grid\fR; multiple invocations of \fId.grid\fR
will therefore result in the drawing of multiple grids
inside the active graphics frame.  (A command like
\fId.erase\fR, which erases the
entire contents of the active display frame, must be run to
erase previously drawn grids from the display frame.)
.PP
If the user provides a \fI\-g\fR flag a geographic (projected) grid
will be drawn. With the \fI\-g\fR flag the \fIsize\fR
argument accepts both decimal degrees and colon separated
ddd:mm:ss coordinates (eg. 00:30:00 for half of a degree).
.PP
A geographic grid cannot be drawn for a \fIlatitude/longitude\fR
or \fIXY\fR projection.
.PP
Colors may be standard named GRASS colors (red, green, aqua, etc.) or
a numerical R:G:B triplet, where component values range from 0\-255.
.br
.PP
The grid drawing may be turned off by using the \fI\-n\fR flag.
.br
The border drawing may be turned off by using the \fI\-b\fR flag.
.br
The coordinate text may be turned off by using the \fI\-t\fR flag.
.br
.PP
To draw grid lines at different intervals, e.g. at high latitudes, you
can run the module twice, once with \fBdirection\fR=\fIeast\-west\fR
at one interval \fBsize\fR, and again with
\fBdirection\fR=\fInorth\-south\fR at another interval \fBsize\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
To draw a red geographic grid with 30 minute grid spacing, run
either of the following:
.br
.nf
\fC
d.grid \-g size=00:30:00 color=red
\fR
.fi
or
.br
.nf
\fC
d.grid \-g size=0.5 color=255:0:0
\fR
.fi
To draw a blue standard rectangular grid at a 500 (meter) spacing run the following:
.br
.nf
\fC
d.grid size=500 color=blue
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
d.barscale,
d.legend,
d.geodesic,
d.rhumbline,
d.erase,
d.frame,
d.rast
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
James Westervelt, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory
.br
Geogrid support: Bob Covill
.br
Border support: Markus Neteler
.br
Text and RGB support: Hamish Bowman
.br
.PP
\fILast changed: $Date: 2014\-11\-28 10:58:18 +0100 (Fri, 28 Nov 2014) $\fR
.PP
Main index |
Display index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2016
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.0.4 Reference Manual
