.TH r.texture 1 "" "GRASS 7.0.4" "Grass User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.texture\fR\fR  \- Generate images with textural features from a raster map.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, algebra, statistics, texture
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.texture\fR
.br
\fBr.texture \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.texture\fR [\-\fBsa\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIbasename\fR  [\fBsize\fR=\fIvalue\fR]   [\fBdistance\fR=\fIvalue\fR]   [\fBmethod\fR=\fIstring\fR[,\fIstring\fR,...]]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-s\fR" 4m
.br
Separate output for each angle (0, 45, 90, 135)
.IP "\fB\-a\fR" 4m
.br
Calculate all textural measurements
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIbasename\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output basename raster map(s)
.IP "\fBsize\fR=\fIvalue\fR" 4m
.br
The size of moving window (odd and >= 3)
.br
Default: \fI3\fR
.IP "\fBdistance\fR=\fIvalue\fR" 4m
.br
The distance between two samples (>= 1)
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBmethod\fR=\fIstring[,\fIstring\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Textural measurement method
.br
Options: \fIasm, contrast, corr, var, idm, sa, se, sv, entr, dv, de, moc1, moc2\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.texture\fR creates raster maps with textural features from a
user\-specified raster map layer. The module calculates textural features
based on spatial dependence matrices at 0, 45, 90, and 135
degrees for a \fIdistance\fR (default = 1).
.PP
\fIr.texture\fR assumes grey levels ranging from 0 to 255 as input.
The input is automatically rescaled to 0 to 255 if the input map range is outside
of this range.
.PP
In general, several variables constitute texture: differences in grey level values,
coarseness as scale of grey level differences, presence or lack of directionality
and regular patterns. A texture can be characterized by tone (grey level intensity
properties) and structure (spatial relationships). Since textures are highly scale
dependent, hierarchical textures may occur.
.PP
\fIr.texture\fR reads a GRASS raster map as input and calculates
textural features based on spatial dependence matrices for north\-south,
east\-west, northwest, and southwest directions using a side by side
neighborhood (i.e., a distance of 1), and writes out by default the average
over all angles for each measure. Optionally, using flag \fB\-s\fR the output
consists of four images for each textural feature, one for every direction
(0, 45, 90, 135).
.PP
The user must carefully set the resolution (using \fIg.region\fR) before
running this program, or the computer may run out of memory.
.PP
A commonly used texture model is based on the so\-called grey level co\-occurrence
matrix. This matrix is a two\-dimensional histogram of grey levels
for a pair of pixels which are separated by a fixed spatial relationship.
The matrix approximates the joint probability distribution of a pair of pixels.
Several texture measures are directly computed from the grey level co\-occurrence
matrix.
.PP
The following part offers brief explanations of texture measures (after
Jensen 1996).
.SS First\-order statistics in the spatial domain
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
Sum Average (SA)
.IP \(bu 4n
Entropy (ENT):
This measure analyses the randomness. It is high when the values of the
moving window have similar values. It is low when the values are close
to either 0 or 1 (i.e. when the pixels in the local window are uniform).
.IP \(bu 4n
Difference Entropy (DE)
.IP \(bu 4n
Sum Entropy (SE)
.IP \(bu 4n
Variance (VAR):
A measure of gray tone variance within the moving window (second\-order
moment about the mean)
.IP \(bu 4n
Difference Variance (DV)
.IP \(bu 4n
Sum Variance (SV)
.RE
Note that measures \(dqmean\(dq, \(dqkurtosis\(dq, \(dqrange\(dq, \(dqskewness\(dq, and \(dqstandard
deviation\(dq are available in \fIr.neighbors\fR.
.SS Second\-order statistics in the spatial domain
The second\-order statistics texture model is based on the so\-called grey
level co\-occurrence matrices (GLCM; after Haralick 1979).
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
Angular Second Moment (ASM, also called Uniformity):
This is a measure of local homogeneity and the opposite of Entropy.
High values of ASM occur when the pixels in the moving window are
very similar.
.br
Note: The square root of the ASM is sometimes used as a texture measure,
and is called Energy.
.IP \(bu 4n
Inverse Difference Moment (IDM, also called Homogeneity):
This measure relates inversely to the contrast measure. It is a direct measure of the
local homogeneity of a digital image. Low values are associated with low homogeneity
and vice versa.
.IP \(bu 4n
Contrast (CON):
This measure analyses the image contrast (locally gray\-level variations) as
the linear dependency of grey levels of neighboring pixels (similarity). Typically high,
when the scale of local texture is larger than the \fIdistance\fR.
.IP \(bu 4n
Correlation (COR):
This measure  analyses the linear dependency of grey levels of neighboring
pixels. Typically high, when the scale of local texture is larger than the
\fIdistance\fR.
.IP \(bu 4n
Information Measures of Correlation (MOC)
.IP \(bu 4n
Maximal Correlation Coefficient (MCC)
.RE
.SH NOTES
Importantly, the input raster map cannot have more than 255 categories.
.SH EXAMPLE
Calculation of Angular Second Moment of B/W orthophoto (North Carolina data set):
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=ortho_2001_t792_1m \-p
# set grey level color table 0% black 100% white
r.colors ortho_2001_t792_1m color=grey
# extract grey levels
r.mapcalc \(dqortho_2001_t792_1m.greylevel = ortho_2001_t792_1m\(dq
# texture analysis
r.texture ortho_2001_t792_1m.greylevel prefix=ortho_texture method=asm \-s
# display
g.region n=221461 s=221094 w=638279 e=638694
d.shade color=ortho_texture_ASM_0 shade=ortho_2001_t792_1m
\fR
.fi
This calculates four maps (requested texture at four orientations):
ortho_texture_ASM_0, ortho_texture_ASM_45, ortho_texture_ASM_90, ortho_texture_ASM_135.
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
The program can run incredibly slow for large raster maps.
.SH REFERENCES
The algorithm was implemented after Haralick et al., 1973 and 1979.
.PP
The code was taken by permission from \fIpgmtexture\fR, part of
PBMPLUS (Copyright 1991, Jef Poskanser and Texas Agricultural Experiment
Station, employer for hire of James Darrell McCauley). Manual page
of pgmtexture.
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
Haralick, R.M., K. Shanmugam, and I. Dinstein (1973). Textural features for
image classification. \fIIEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and
Cybernetics\fR, SMC\-3(6):610\-621.
.IP \(bu 4n
Bouman, C. A., Shapiro, M. (1994). A Multiscale Random Field Model for
Bayesian Image Segmentation, IEEE Trans. on Image Processing, vol. 3, no. 2.
.IP \(bu 4n
Jensen, J.R. (1996). Introductory digital image processing. Prentice Hall.
ISBN 0\-13\-205840\-5
.IP \(bu 4n
Haralick, R. (May 1979). \fIStatistical and structural approaches to texture\fR,
Proceedings of the IEEE, vol. 67, No.5, pp. 786\-804
.IP \(bu 4n
Hall\-Beyer, M. (2007). The GLCM Tutorial Home Page
(Grey\-Level Co\-occurrence Matrix texture measurements). University of Calgary, Canada
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
i.smap,
i.gensigset,
i.pca,
r.neighbors,
r.rescale
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
G. Antoniol \- RCOST (Research Centre on Software Technology \- Viale Traiano \- 82100 Benevento)
.br
C. Basco \-  RCOST (Research Centre on Software Technology \- Viale Traiano \- 82100 Benevento)
.br
M. Ceccarelli \- Facolta di Scienze, Universita del Sannio, Benevento
.PP
\fILast changed: $Date: 2015\-12\-03 17:34:44 +0100 (Thu, 03 Dec 2015) $\fR
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2016
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.0.4 Reference Manual
