.TH r3.timestamp 1 "" "GRASS 7.0.4" "Grass User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr3.timestamp\fR\fR  \- Print/add/remove a timestamp for a 3D raster map
.SH KEYWORDS
raster3d, timestamp, time, voxel
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr3.timestamp\fR
.br
\fBr3.timestamp \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr3.timestamp\fR \fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBdate\fR=\fItimestamp\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of 3D raster map
.IP "\fBdate\fR=\fItimestamp\fR" 4m
.br
Datetime, datetime1/datetime2, or none
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command has 2 modes of operation. If no date argument
is supplied, then the current timestamp for the 3D raster map
is printed. If a date argument is specified, then the
timestamp for the 3D raster map is set to the specified
date(s). See EXAMPLES below.
.SH EXAMPLES
\fBr3.timestamp map=soils\fR
.br
Prints the timestamp for the \(dqsoils\(dq 3D raster map. If
there is no timestamp for soils, nothing is printed. If
there is a timestamp, one or two lines are printed,
depending on if the timestamp for the map consists of a
single date or two dates (ie start and end dates).
.PP
\fBr3.timestamp map=soils date=\(cq15 sep 1987\(cq\fR
.br
Sets the timestamp for \(dqsoils\(dq to the single date
.br
\(dq15 sep 1987\(dq
.PP
\fBr3.timestamp map=soils date=\(cq15 sep 1987/20 feb 1988\(cq\fR
.br
Sets the timestamp for \(dqsoils\(dq to have the start date
.br
\(dq15 sep 1987\(dq and the end date \(dq20 feb 1988\(dq
.PP
\fBr3.timestamp map=soils date=\(cq18 feb 2005 10:30:00/20 jul 2007 20:30:00\(cq\fR
.br
Sets the timestamp for \(dqsoils\(dq to have the start date
.br
\(dq18 aug 2005 10:30:00\(dq and the end date \(dq20 jul 2007 20:30:00\(dq
.PP
\fBr3.timestamp map=soils date=none\fR
.br
Removes the timestamp for the \(dqsoils\(dq 3D raster map
.SH TIMESTAMP FORMAT
The timestamp values must use the format as described in the
GRASS datetime library.  The source tree for this library
should have a description of the format. For convience, the
formats as of Feb, 1996 are reproduced here:
.PP
There are two types of datetime values: absolute and
relative. Absolute values specify exact dates and/or times.
Relative values specify a span of time. Some examples will
help clarify:
.PP
\fBAbsolute\fR
.PP
The general format for absolute values is
.PP
day month year [bc] hour:minute:seconds timezone
.br
day is 1\-31
.br
month is jan,feb,...,dec
.br
year is 4 digit year
.br
[bc] if present, indicates dates is BC
.br
hour is 0\-23 (24 hour clock)
.br
minute is 0\-59
.br
second is 0\-59.9999 (fractions of second allowed)
.br
timezone is +hhmm or \-hhmm (eg, \-0600)
.br
.br
parts can be missing
.br
1994 [bc]
.br
Jan 1994 [bc]
.br
15 jan 1000 [bc]
.br
15 jan 1994 [bc] 10 [+0000]
.br
15 jan 1994 [bc] 10:00 [+0100]
.br
15 jan 1994 [bc] 10:00:23.34 [\-0500]
.br
.br
\fB Relative\fR
There are two types of relative datetime values, year\-
month and day\-second.	 The formats are:
.PP
[\-] # years # months
.br
[\-] # days # hours # minutes # seconds
.PP
The words years, months, days, hours, minutes, seconds
are literal words, and the # are the numeric values.
.br
Examples:
.PP
2 years
.br
5 months
.br
2 years 5 months
.br
100 days
.br
15 hours 25 minutes 35.34 seconds
.br
100 days 25 minutes
.br
1000 hours 35.34 seconds
.PP
The following are \fIillegal\fR because it mixes year\-month
and day\-second (because the number of days in a month
or in a year vary):
.PP
3 months 15 days
.br
3 years 10 days
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
Spaces in the timestamp value are required.
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Pelizzari
.br
Lockheed Martin Space Systems
.br
based on r.timestamp by Michael Shapiro,
.br
U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory
.PP
\fILast changed: $Date: 2015\-05\-11 02:16:13 +0200 (Mon, 11 May 2015) $\fR
.PP
Main index |
3D raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2016
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.0.4 Reference Manual
