.TH temporalintro 1 "" "GRASS 7.0.4" "Grass User's Manual"
.SH Temporal data processing in GRASS GIS
The temporal enabled GRASS introduces three new datatypes that
are designed to handle time series data:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fISpace time raster datasets\fR (strds) are designed to manage
raster map time series. Modules that process strds have the naming
prefix \fIt.rast\fR.
.IP \(bu 4n
\fISpace time 3D raster datasets\fR (str3ds) are designed to
manage 3D raster map time series. Modules that process str3ds have the
naming prefix \fIt.rast3d\fR.
.IP \(bu 4n
\fISpace time vector datasets\fR (stvds) are designed to manage
vector map time series. Modules that process stvds have the naming
prefix \fIt.vect\fR.
.RE
These new data types can be managed, analyzed and processed with temporal modules that
are based on the GRASS GIS temporal framework.
.SS Temporal data management in general
Space time datasets are stored in a temporal database. SQLite3 or
PostgreSQL are supported as SQL database back end. Temporal databases
stored in other mapsets can be used as long as they are in the
user\(cqs current mapset search path (managed with g.mapsets).
.PP
Connection settings are performed with t.connect.
As default a sqlite3 database will be created in the current mapset that
stores all space time datasets and registered time series maps.
.PP
New space time datasets are created in the temporal database with
t.create. The name of the new dataset, the
type (strds, str3ds, stvds), the title and the description must be
provided for creation. Optional the temporal type (absolute, relative)
and semantic information can be provided.
.PP
The module t.remove will remove the space time datasets
from the temporal database. Use  t.support
to modify the metadata of space time datasets or to update the metadata
that is derived from registered maps. This module also checks for removed
and modified maps and updates the space time datasets accordingly.
Rename a space time dataset with t.rename.
.PP
The module t.register is designed to
register raster, 3D raster and vector maps in the temporal database and
optionally in a space time dataset. It supports different input options. Maps
to register can be provided as a comma separated string at the command line, or
in an input file. The module supports the definition of time stamps
(time instances or intervals) for each map in the input file.
With  t.unregister maps can be unregistered
from space time datasets and the temporal database.
.PP
To print information about space time datasets or registered maps, the
module  t.info can be used.
t.list will list all space time datasets and
registered maps in the temporal database.
.PP
To compute and check the temporal topology of a space time datasets the
module t.topology was designed. The module
t.sample samples input space time dataset(s)
with a sample space time dataset and print the result to standard output.
Several different sample methods are supported that can be combined.
.PP
List of general management modules:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
t.connect
.IP \(bu 4n
t.create
.IP \(bu 4n
t.rename
.IP \(bu 4n
t.remove
.IP \(bu 4n
t.register
.IP \(bu 4n
t.unregister
.IP \(bu 4n
t.info
.IP \(bu 4n
t.list
.IP \(bu 4n
t.sample
.IP \(bu 4n
t.support
.IP \(bu 4n
t.topology
.RE
.SS Modules to visualize space time datasets and temporal data
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
g.gui.animation
.IP \(bu 4n
g.gui.timeline
.IP \(bu 4n
g.gui.mapswipe
.RE
.SS Modules to process space time raster datasets
The focus of the temporal GIS framework is the processing and analysis of
raster time series. Hence the majority of the temporal modules are designed to process space time raster
datasets. However, there are several modules to process space time 3D raster datasets
and space time vector datasets.
.SS Querying and map calculation
Registered maps of a space time raster datasets can be listed using
t.rast.list. This module supports several
methods how the maps should be listed using SQL queries do determine how
they are selected and sorted. Subsets of space time raster datasets can
be extracted with t.rast.extract that
allows additionally to perform mapcalc operations on the selected raster
maps.
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
t.rast.extract
.IP \(bu 4n
t.rast.gapfill
.IP \(bu 4n
t.rast.mapcalc
.IP \(bu 4n
t.rast.colors
.IP \(bu 4n
t.rast.neighbors
.RE
Additionally, there is v.what.strds.
.SS Aggregation and accumulation analysis
The temporal framework support the aggregation of space time raster
datasets. It provides three modules to perform aggregation using different
approaches. To aggregate a space time raster map using a temporal
granularity like 4 months, 7 days and so on use
t.rast.aggregate. The module
t.rast.aggregate.ds allows the
aggregation of raster map series using the intervals of the maps (raster,
3D raster and vector) of a 2. space time dataset. A simple interface to
r.series is the module
t.rast.series that processes the whole
input space time raster dataset or a subset of it.
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
t.rast.aggregate
.IP \(bu 4n
t.rast.aggregate.ds
.IP \(bu 4n
t.rast.series
.IP \(bu 4n
t.rast.accumulate
.IP \(bu 4n
t.rast.accdetect
.RE
.SS Export/import conversion
Space time raster datasets can be exported with t.rast.export
as compressed tar archive. Such archives can be imported
using t.rast.import,
.PP
The module t.rast.to.rast3 converts
space time raster datasets into space time voxel cubes. All 3D raster modules
can be used to process such voxel cubes. This conversion allows the export of space time raster datasets
as netcdf files that include time as one dimension.
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
t.rast.export
.IP \(bu 4n
t.rast.import
.IP \(bu 4n
t.rast.out.vtk
.IP \(bu 4n
t.rast.to.rast3
.IP \(bu 4n
r3.out.netcdf
.RE
.SS Statistics and gap filling
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
t.rast.gapfill
.IP \(bu 4n
t.rast.univar
.RE
.SS Modules to manage, process and analyze STR3DS and STVDS
Several space time vector dataset modules were developed, to allow the handling
of vector time series data.
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
t.vect.extract
.IP \(bu 4n
t.vect.import
.IP \(bu 4n
t.vect.export
.IP \(bu 4n
t.vect.observe.strds
.IP \(bu 4n
t.vect.univar
.IP \(bu 4n
t.vect.what.strds
.IP \(bu 4n
t.vect.db.select
.RE
The space time 3D raster dataset modules are doing exactly the same as their raster
pendants but with 3D raster map layers:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
t.rast3d.list
.IP \(bu 4n
t.rast3d.extract
.IP \(bu 4n
t.rast3d.mapcalc
.IP \(bu 4n
t.rast3d.univar
.RE
.SS See also
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
Gebbert, S., Pebesma, E., 2014. TGRASS: A temporal GIS for field based
environmental modeling. Environmental Modelling & Software 53, 1\-12.
(DOI)
.IP \(bu 4n
Temporal data processing (Wiki)
.IP \(bu 4n
Vaclav Petras, Anna Petrasova, Helena Mitasova, Markus Neteler, \fBFOSS4G 2014 workshop\fR:
.br
Spatio\-temporal data handling and visualization in GRASS GIS
.IP \(bu 4n
GEOSTAT 2012 TGRASS Course
.RE
.PP
Main index |
temporal index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2016
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.0.4 Reference Manual
