.TH v.db.addcolumn 1 "" "GRASS 7.0.4" "Grass User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.db.addcolumn\fR\fR  \- Adds one or more columns to the attribute table connected to a given vector map.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, attribute table, database
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.db.addcolumn\fR
.br
\fBv.db.addcolumn \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.db.addcolumn\fR \fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR]  \fBcolumns\fR=\fIstring\fR  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of vector map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number where to add column(s)
.br
Vector features can have category values in different layers. This number determines which layer to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBcolumns\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name and type of the new column(s) (\(cqname type [,name type, ...]\(cq)
.br
Data types depend on database backend, but all support VARCHAR(), INT, DOUBLE PRECISION and DATE
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.db.addcolumn\fR adds one or more column(s) to the attribute table
connected to a given vector map. It automatically checks the connection for the
specified layer.
.SH NOTES
\fIv.db.addcolumn\fR is a front\-end to \fIdb.execute\fR to allow easier usage.
The supported types of columns depend on the database backend. However, all
backends should support VARCHAR, INT, DOUBLE PRECISION and DATE.
.PP
The existing database connection(s) can be verified with \fIv.db.connect\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
Adding a single column:
.br
.br
.nf
\fC
g.copy vect=roadsmajor,myroads
v.db.addcolumn myroads columns=\(dqslope double precision\(dq
v.info \-c myroads
\fR
.fi
.PP
Adding two columns:
.br
.br
.nf
\fC
g.copy vect=roadsmajor,myroads
v.db.addcolumn myroads columns=\(dqslope double precision,myname varchar(15)\(dq
v.info \-c myroads
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
db.connect,
db.execute,
v.db.addtable,
v.db.connect,
v.db.dropcolumn,
v.db.droptable,
v.db.select,
v.db.update
.br
GRASS SQL interface
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Moritz Lennert (mlennert@club.worldonline.be)
.PP
\fILast changed: $Date: 2011\-11\-08 13:24:20 \-0800 (Tue, 08 Nov 2011) $\fR
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2016
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.0.4 Reference Manual
