.TH v.perturb 1 "" "GRASS 7.0.4" "Grass User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.perturb\fR\fR  \- Random location perturbations of vector points.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, geometry, statistics, random, point pattern
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.perturb\fR
.br
\fBv.perturb \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.perturb\fR [\-\fBb\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR]  \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBdistribution\fR=\fIstring\fR]  \fBparameters\fR=\fIfloat\fR[,\fIfloat\fR,...]  [\fBminimum\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBseed\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-b\fR" 4m
.br
Do not build topology
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input vector map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number or name (\(cq\-1\(cq for all layers)
.br
A single vector map can be connected to multiple database tables. This number determines which table to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI\-1\fR
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output vector map
.IP "\fBdistribution\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Distribution of perturbation
.br
Options: \fIuniform, normal\fR
.br
Default: \fIuniform\fR
.IP "\fBparameters\fR=\fIfloat[,\fIfloat\fR,...]\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Parameter(s) of distribution
.br
If the distribution is uniform, only one parameter, the maximum, is needed. For a normal distribution, two parameters, the mean and standard deviation, are required.
.IP "\fBminimum\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Minimum deviation in map units
.br
Default: \fI0.0\fR
.IP "\fBseed\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Seed for random number generation
.br
Default: \fI0\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.perturb\fR
reads a vector map of points and writes the same points but
\fIperturbs\fR the eastings and northings by
adding either a uniform or normal delta value. Perturbation means that
a variating spatial deviation is added to the coordinates.
.SH NOTES
The uniform distribution is always centered about zero.
The associated \fIparameter\fR is constrained to be positive and
specifies the maximum of the distribution; the minimum is
the negation of that parameter. Do perturb into a ring around the
center, the \fIminimum\fR parameter can be used.
.PP
Usually, the mean (first parameter) of the normal
distribution is zero (i.e., the distribution is centered at
zero). The standard deviation (second parameter) is
naturally constrained to be positive.
.PP
Output vector points are not guaranteed to be contained within the
current geographic region.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIv.random\fR
.br
\fIv.univar\fR
.br
.SH AUTHOR
James Darrell McCauley
.br
when he was at:
Agricultural Engineering
Purdue University
.PP
Random number generators originally written in FORTRAN by Wes Peterson and
translated to C using \fIf2c\fR.
.PP
\fILast changed: $Date: 2011\-11\-08 13:24:20 \-0800 (Tue, 08 Nov 2011) $\fR
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2016
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.0.4 Reference Manual
